content/publication/uncovering-interest-group-participation-in-germany-web-collection-of-written-statements-in-ministries-and-the-parliament/index.md, before:

---
title: "Uncovering interest group participation in Germany: web collection of
  written statements in ministries and the parliament"
publication_types:
  - "0"
authors:
  - admin
  - rainer-eising
  - florian-spohr
  - daniel-rasch
doi: 10.1057/s41309-020-00099-5
abstract: This article discusses web collection of interest group statements on
  bills as a data source. Written statements allow the identification of actors
  active in policy-making as well as those actors’ positions, lobbying
  coalitions and issue saliency. These data also can contribute to the
  measurement of interest groups’ influence on legislation. Taking web
  collection from the German parliament’s and ministries’ web pages as an
  example, we demonstrate the collection process and the merits and limitations
  of employing written statements as identificatory data. Our analysis of
  statements submitted by interest groups, private firms and policy experts to
  four federal ministries and the respective parliamentary committees in the
  years 2015 and 2016 reveals differences between parliamentary and ministerial
  consultations. Although ministries have invited written statements for fewer
  draft laws than parliamentary committees, they received far more statements
  from interest groups. The reason is that German ministries often issue open
  calls, in which all actors are given the opportunity to comment on
  legislation, whereas the German parliament invites selected interest group
  representatives and other experts. As a further result, ministries are mostly
  contacted by business groups, whereas parliamentary committees use their
  gatekeeper function to balance interests.
draft: false
featured: true
image:
  filename: featured
  focal_point: Smart
  preview_only: false
date: 2021-07-15T19:10:44.065Z
---

Commit message:

Update Publication “uncovering-interest-group-participation-in-germany-web-collection-of-written-statements-in-ministries-and-the-parliament/index”

content/publication/uncovering-interest-group-participation-in-germany-web-collection-of-written-statements-in-ministries-and-the-parliament/index.md, after:

---
title: "Uncovering interest group participation in Germany: web collection of
  written statements in ministries and the parliament"
publication_types:
  - "2"
authors:
  - admin
  - rainer-eising
  - florian-spohr
  - daniel-rasch
doi: 10.1057/s41309-020-00099-5
publication: In *Interest Groups & Advocacy*
publication_short: In *IG&A*
abstract: This article discusses web collection of interest group statements on
  bills as a data source. Written statements allow the identification of actors
  active in policy-making as well as those actors’ positions, lobbying
  coalitions and issue saliency. These data also can contribute to the
  measurement of interest groups’ influence on legislation. Taking web
  collection from the German parliament’s and ministries’ web pages as an
  example, we demonstrate the collection process and the merits and limitations
  of employing written statements as identificatory data. Our analysis of
  statements submitted by interest groups, private firms and policy experts to
  four federal ministries and the respective parliamentary committees in the
  years 2015 and 2016 reveals differences between parliamentary and ministerial
  consultations. Although ministries have invited written statements for fewer
  draft laws than parliamentary committees, they received far more statements
  from interest groups. The reason is that German ministries often issue open
  calls, in which all actors are given the opportunity to comment on
  legislation, whereas the German parliament invites selected interest group
  representatives and other experts. As a further result, ministries are mostly
  contacted by business groups, whereas parliamentary committees use their
  gatekeeper function to balance interests.
draft: false
featured: true
image:
  filename: featured
  focal_point: Smart
  preview_only: false
date: 2021-07-15T19:10:44.065Z
---
